---
layout: page
title: Flags
due: TBD
description: >-
    Homeworks
---

# Homework 1: Flags

## Goals
- Getting used to the pyret environment
- Creating flags and other symbols from basic shapes
- Practicing program planning

## Setup
- Go to code.pyret.org; this requires logging in with any Google account.
- Make a new file in code.pyret.org called hw1-code.arr.

## Resources

### Documentation

The [Pyret documentation](https://www.pyret.org/docs/latest/) is accessible from the Pirate button in the top left corner of code.pyret.org.

For this assignment, you will find the [image documentation](https://www.pyret.org/docs/latest/image.html) useful. We recommend skimming through the page before starting the problems!
<br>

## Part One: Generating Flags

It's been discovered that the files for a few flags have gone missing, and you have been tasked with recreating them!
The flags you will need to recreate are as follows:
- Lithuania
- Greenland
- Tunisia
- Saint Lucia

Some things to note:
- The entire flag should be filled with color (white space on a flag should be white, not transparent!)
- The flag does not need to match exactly, but key elements or features should be present

## Part Two: Program Planning 

Most of the time, producing successful code requires thorough outlining and planning. Program planning is a skill that can help you deconstruct a problem in a way that allows you to avoid potential bugs. We now want to practice the process of outlining code prior to coding.

<b>Task 1:</b> Pick one of the two images below. Without coding it, write a list of steps and action items that describe, in words, how to recreate your image (imagine that you were trying to get a child to draw the image from your steps) starting from basic shapes. Use any terms you want to describe the steps: you don’t have to stick to names of operations that exist in Pyret or concepts that we’ve covered in class.

Write your instructions in a word processor or text editor of your choice (Word, Google Docs, etc), then save/export the file as a PDF (we’re practicing this workflow now since we will need to do this multiple times this semester). Remember you’re writing these steps in prose, not code.

`2 images here`

## Possible Bonus: Maryland Flag

## Notes
- First off, I like how simple and also interactive this homework is.
- I think working with shapes/images is especially nice for a first assignment, as it is easy to keep track of how your output changes and there is plenty of room for trial and error
- I think it would be nice if we included our own playlist too
