---
layout: page
title: Homework 2
due: TBD
parent: Homeworks
description: >-
    Homeworks
---

## Technical Concepts
- unit tests
- expressions
- comparison & logical operators
- if statements
- functions

## Domain Used
- advertising

# Homework 2

## Setup

- Unlike Homework 1, you will need to write tests for your own code. For each functon you implement write examples using a where block 

## Helpful Things

### Documentation

The [Pyret documentation](https://www.pyret.org/docs/latest/) is accessible from the Pirate button in the top left corner of code.pyret.org.

For this assignment, you will find the [Strings documentation](https://www.pyret.org/docs/latest/strings.html) useful. We recommend skimming through the page before starting the problems!

## Part 1: Representing Ads

The first step in processing something with a program is to *represent* that thing in terms of focused, discrete pieces of data. Consider the following ad to a diner:

- Insert ad image


**Task 1:** Imagine that this ad were posted around town. Write down 4-6 elements in this ad that are designed to attract people to it.

Write your answer as a block comment in your code file. It should look something like the following (but in terms of ads):

```
#|
My list includes
- item 1
- item 2
- item 3
- item 4
|#
```

For this assignment, we will use three pieces of information to represent an ad: the age of person it targets, the location of the event, and the kinds of activities it involves. Because we are working with a single fixed ad, we will store the information about the ad in three constants:

```
TARGET-AGE = 18
TARGET-TOWN = "College Park"
TARGET-LIKES = "waffles, pancakes, sandwiches, omelettes"
```

**Task 2:** Copy and paste these constants into the top of your code.
<br>
## Part 2: Writing Expressions

We're going to practice writing **[expressions](https://dcic-world.org/2021-08-21/getting-started.html#%28part._expressions%29)** (not functions, we'll get to those later in the assignment). 

When your expressions are evaluated, they might print out in the interactions window when you hit "Run". That's fine (for this assignment), or you can give the expression a name (e.g., `task1 = ...`)`

**Task 3:** Write an expression to determine whether 21 is within 5 years of the constant `TARGET-AGE`.

*Note*: When we say "within 5 years," we mean inclusively. 


**Task 4:** Write an expression that returns true if either `"Rockville"` is the same as `TARGET-TOWN` or `"salmon"` is the same as `TARGET-LIKES`.

*Note:* You can you use `==` or `string-equal` to do the comparison (the former works on any type of data, the latter works only on strings).


**Task 5:** This time, instead of returning a Boolean, we want to return a String that indicates whether the target town, target food, both, or neither match `"College Park"` and `"salmon"` (returning either `"town"`, `"food"`, `"both"`, or `"neither"`). Use nested `if` expressions (when one `if` is inside the answer of the other) to write an expression that returns the appropriate string given the traits `"College Park"` and `"salmon"`.


**Task 6:** Contrast the expressions for the previous two tasks (the one that returned the Boolean and the one that returned a String). Write 1-2 sentences in a comment comparing nested `if` expressions and boolean logic. When can we use each form? When must we use each form?

*Note*: You can create multi-line comments when you go over 80 characters on one line as follows:

```
# This is a regular comment.

#| This is a
   multi-line
   comment! 
|#
```
<br>
## Part 3: Writing Functions for Targeted Ads

So far, our expressions have fixed the information about a person to compare to the constants about the ad. In order to check whether the ad matches an arbitrary person, we need to write functions that take information about the person as inputs.

**Task 7:** Convert your expression from task 3 (checking the age) into a function called `within-5`. This function should take in a `Number` representing a person's age and return a `Boolean` which is `true` if target `TARGET-AGE` is within five years of the input, and `false` if not. Make sure to write type annotations on the input parameters, a docstring, and examples.

Previously, our expressions checked for an *exact* match of a food string to `TARGET-LIKES`. In practice, we might want to match an ad if a given food was *within* the string (what we call a "substring"), rather than an exact match.

**Task 8:** Write a function called `favorite-food`, which takes in a `String` representing a person's favorite food and returns a `Boolean` which is `true` when `TARGET-LIKES` contains the input string, and `false` otherwise. 

*Hint:* Take a look at Pyret's [Strings documentation](https://www.pyret.org/docs/latest/strings.html)  for an operation on strings that would help you do this.

Our current approach to matching towns/locations for ads is a bit restrictive: someone who lives in a neighboring town might still be able to get there. This motivates our next function.

**Task 9:** Write in the function `is-nearby`, which takes in a `String` representing the name of a town and returns a `Boolean`. Return `true` if the input is one of `"Berwyn Heights"`, `"Hyattsville"`, `"Adelphi"`, or `"Riverdale Park"`; return `false` otherwise. 
    
Now, let's practice using functions to write other functions. 

**Task 10:** Write in the function `in-range`, which takes in a `String` representing a person's town and a `Boolean` representing whether the person has a car. Return `true` if the place is `TARGET-TOWN` *or* both the input place is nearby and the person has a car. Otherwise, the function should return `false`. 

Now it's time to put all the criteria together to determine whether an ad should be shown to a potential customer or not.

**Task 11:** Write a function called `show-ad`. The inputs are a `Number` representing a customer's age, a `String` representing their town, a `String` representing their favorite food, and a `Boolean` representing whether they have a car. The output is a `Boolean` which is `true` when their age is within five years of the target age (inclusive), their town is within the area with a car or in `TARGET-TOWN` itself, and `TARGET-LIKES` contains their favorite food. The output is `false` otherwise.

*Hint:* Try to reuse your work from earlier tasks for this one.

*Reminder:* Remember to include types, doc strings, and examples with all of your functions.

### A Different Representation for Ads

So far, we have represented an ad as three constants (`TARGET-AGE`, etc). What if we represented each ad as a single string with all of its text instead? What other ways of matching people and ads might we try?

**Task 12:** Write in the function `show-ad2`, which takes in a `String` representing the text of an ad and a `Number` representing a person's age, and returns a `Boolean`. This `Boolean` will be `true` if **any** of the following conditions are met, and `false` otherwise:

- The customer's age is 22 or younger and the ad contains the word "affordable"
- The customer's age is 35 or older and the ad contains the word "convenient"
- The ad text contains the word "delicious"

### Comparing different targeting methods

The functions `show-ad` and `show-ad2` are our first attempt at writing functions to match ads to people. The next couple of homeworks will revisit this theme as we learn more programming concepts, and our functions will become more sophisticated. 

**Task 13**: Write a paragraph comment (in your code file) responding to these questions about the approaches taken in these two functions:
- How might these functions differ from how real ads are rated? 
- Think about the way we set up the code and the programming operations that we used. What are the limitations of our current code/operations for evaluating ads? What would you want to be able to do in code to do a better job of rating ads?

**Task 14:** In a `check` block, write two examples using each ad-placing method (`show-ad` and `show-ad2`). Each example should show a situation in which the function would output 'false' (because of a limitation of the function), even though the ad would otherwise seem a good match for the person.

*Note*: A `check` block looks like this
```
check:
  show-ad(...) is false
  ...
end
```
<br>
## Part 4: Cleaning Up Code

In this exercise, we want you to use three concepts we've learned---local names, helper functions, and examples---to make a piece of code easier to read without changing what it computes.

**Task 15:** Rewrite the following function into a new version called `ad-charge-clean` that meets the Design and Clarity requirements of the [CS0111 Style Guidelines](http://cs.brown.edu/courses/csci0111/fall2021/assets/docs/pyret-clarity-design-testing.html) 
### (need to change link in the future). 


```
fun ad-charge-messy(ad-text):
  short-length = 10
  medium-length = 40
  long-length = 70
  if ((string-length(ad-text) >= short-length) and (string-length(ad-text) < medium-length)):
    (string-length(ad-text) * (short-length / 2)) + (string-length(ad-text) * 5)
  else if ((string-length(ad-text) >= medium-length) and (string-length(ad-text) < long-length)):
    (string-length(ad-text) * (medium-length / 2)) + (string-length(ad-text) * 5)
  else if (string-length(ad-text) >= long-length) :
    (string-length(ad-text) * (long-length / 2)) + (string-length(ad-text) * 5)
  else: 0
  end
where:
  ad-charge-messy("Go Terps!") is 0
  ad-charge-messy("Apply to UMD") is 120
end
```

*Hint:* You can either copy the code and edit it to clean up or try writing parts from scratch: follow whichever makes the most sense to you. Try looking for repeated or similar expressions: repeated expressions turn into locally-named ones, while similar expressions get turned into helper functions.

**Task 16:** We want to make sure that the clean version produces the same output as the original messy one. Provide a `check` block of the following form to convince yourself that your two versions are consistent in their outputs:

```
check:
  ad-charge-messy("Go Terps!") is ad-charge-clean("Go Terps!")
  ...
end
```
<br>
## Part 5: Personalized Ads

**Task 17:** Read ["These Ads Think They Know You"](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/04/30/opinion/privacy-targeted-advertising.html?module=inline) on the parts of user information advertisers are able to access and use when targeting ads. 

**Optional:** For a more thorough understanding of how companies collect and utilize user data, read ["Your Data Is Shared and Sold… What’s Being Done About It?"](https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/data-shared-sold-whats-done/).

**Task 18**: Look at some of the information that Google gathers and infers about its users. You can check your own data by visiting [https://myadcenter.google.com/](https://myadcenter.google.com/)

**Task 19**: Answer the following prompts in a separate document:

-   Identify 3 pieces of information that Google inferred about you and two possible ways that Google inferred that information (your answer would look like "Y likely came from a search I made about X. X was likely inferred from A and B.").

-   Pick two pieces of ad-matching information (either the same or different from what you used in the last question). For each, describe one possible use which is beneficial, and one which you believe is problematic, unethical, or harmful (your answer could look like: Google knows I like OLED TVs; one benefit is X and one harm is Y).
    
    Reference at least two of the following criteria somewhere in your response:
    -   Intent/purpose (academic research vs. targeted ads)
    -   If the data is public, does that mean it can be used in any way?
    -   Time period: Is the data set from a decade ago?
    -   Attributes collected (e.g. religion, race, age, or disability)
    -   Inference potential: What might this information help companies infer about you?

**Task 20:** Turn in your response to Gradescope as a PDF.


## Handin

- Turn in both your code and responses on [Gradescope]({{ site.gradescope_url }})

