---
layout: page
title: Metro
due: TBD
parent: Homeworks
description: >-
    Homeworks
---

# Homework 5 - Draft

[//]: {% increment task %}


- Goals
    - More illustrative problems with map and filter
    - More about recursion
    - Structured and Conditional Data that is relevant to the other parts of the assignment

- Proposal
    - [Washington Metro station entrances](https://opendata.dc.gov/datasets/DCGIS::metro-station-entrances/about)
        - Contains 113 rows of station names, street exit locations, Metro lines, and addresses
        - Example problems
            - Find all of the stations with multiple entrances on the same street
                - Would need to use string processing techniques (e.g. split) as well as map/filter to find stations with certain prefixes that could indicate a similar street
                    - "East Connecticut Avenue"
                    - "West Connecticut Avenue"
                    - Might also have to deal with edge cases where entrance locations are abbreviated (e.g. "NW Corner of ...")
            - Find Metro stations that share lines
                - Construct "Metro station" data type that has a "lines" property, and students would need to use `map` to construct a list of this custom data type.
                    - Subsequently could have students map/filter over this list in order to get a list of "station" objects that fall into a particular category (e.g. line).
        - Could be more extensible/immediately relevant to students
        - Potential concerns:
            - Maybe clashes with HW 4 a bit?

Working with data is messy... but we also need to write problems such that are compatible with autograded tests.

List of tasks:
 - look for entrances on corners


Task _: table with street names and stations on that street

- extracting zip code
- extracting the street



# Draft:

In this homework, we will examine a dataset of Washington Metro stations. Our goal is to be able to answer some useful questions about Metro stations in Washington, like where they are located, and how to navigate between them.

To start, let's import the dataset. Copy and paste the code snippet below into your Pyret editor:

```
include shared-gdrive("[hash here]")
```

This line links in a table on a Pyret source file stored on Google Drive. You can access that file here:
&nbsp;

<!-- Can split task 1 up -->

Once you've imported the dataset, it will be stored as a pyret Table bound to the variable ```metro-table```. Try taking a look at the table in your REPL to ensure you've imported sucessfully.

### Task {% increment task %}:

Let's start by getting a list of the Metro stations in DC. Looking at the `NAME` column in the table, we can see some names are repeated. This indicates that a given Metro station has multiple entrances. However, different entrances to the same station may have different names. In that case, we consider the "root", the shared words of both entrance names to be the name of the station. For example,  "Cleveland Park" and "Cleveland Park Elevator" are two different entrance names for the same station, but we consider them both to be from the station "Cleveland Park".
Write a function ```get-stations``` that takes in a list of entrance names and returns a list of the corresponding stations (with no duplicates). Then, get a list of stations in DC as follows:

```dc-stations = get-stations(metro-table.get_column("NAME"))```

### Creating a table of information
<!-- You want to create a table with information about each Metro station. Start by creating a table with a column called  -->
Use original HW5 structure about table requirements for Task 2

### Task {% increment task %}:

One thing we want to know is how many entrances each Metro station has. Create a column for your table that contains the number of entrances each Metro station has.

Note: You are not allowed to use the ```count``` function.

### Task {% increment task %}:

Now, we want to examine the streets that the entrances lie on. Extract the column `EXIT_TO_ST` from the table and call it `exit-st`. `exit-st` should be a list of strings, with each string representing the location of one entrance. Create a list of lists `exit-st-words` where each interior list contains the individual words of an entrance location in order.

<!-- Text in context; don't allow the member function? -->


### Task {% increment task %}:

We turn our attention to the Avenues. We want to obtain a list of the names of all the Avenues in station entrances. To start, create a list named
`avenue-list` that contains only the entrances locations with `AVENUE` somewhere in their name.

### Task {% increment task %}:

Looking at some examples, we can see that the word that precedes 'AVENUE' often gives the name of that particular avenue. However, in some cases, the name of the avenue is multiple words long. In that case, we'll assume the first word after `OF` or `AND` starts the name of the avenue. Write a function `find-avenue-name` that given a list of words, returns a list of the names of the avenues in that list.

```find-avenue-name([list: "SOUTH", "SIDE", "OF", "RHODE", "ISLAND", "AVENUE", "AT", "RHODE", ISLAND", "PLACE", "SHOPPING", "CENTER"]) = [list: "RHODE ISLAND AVENUE"]```

```find-avenue-name([list: "NE", "CORNER", "OF", "GEORGIA", "AVENUE", NW", "AND", "NEW", "HAMPSHIRE", "AVENUE", "NW"]) = [list: "GEORGIA AVENUE", "NEW HAMPSHIRE AVENUE"]```

```find-avenue-name([list: "AND", "NORTH", "OF", "PENN", "AVENUE", "COW"]) = [list: "PENN AVENUE"]```

### Task {% increment task %}:

Using the function you wrote above, create a list `station-avenues` that has a unique list of all of the avenues in DC that have a Metro entrance along it.

### Task {% increment task %}:

Putting the above parts together, write a function `create-avenues-table` that takes as input a table of subway station entrance names and locations, and returns a table with two columns, `names` of the avenue names, and `count` with the number of station *entrances* on the respective avenues.


## Structured Data
We are now going to explore storing data about Metro stations in a custom data type.

### Task {% increment task %}:

Create a datatype `MetroStation`. Its constructor is station and has ___ fields, `station-name`, `station-lines`, and `entrances`. `station-name` is the same name as would be giving in Task 1. `station-lines` is a list of strings represented the lines the station is on. `entrances` is a list of the entrance locations (given by the `EXIT_TO_ST` columns) for the statation

### Task {% increment task %}:

Using the data from the table, create a list `dc-stations` of `MetroStation`s that contains appropriate information.


### Task {% increment task %}:

Create a function `find-transfer` that takes as arguments two `MetroStation`s and the list `dc-stations`. If either of the Metro Stations as identified by name do not exist in `dc-stations`, return `"Station Not Found"`. If it is possible to travel between the stations without transfering, return `"No Transfer Needed"`. Otherwise, return the list of stations you could possibly transfer at to travel between the stations, assuming you only want to transfer **once**. You can take a look at a map of the Washington Metro to convince yourself that this is always possible.


### Task {% increment task %}:

Suppose one entire line must be removed from service. Write a function `find-removal`, that given a list of `MetroStation`s, returns a string representing the line that, when removed, results in the fewest number of inaccessible stations. [may need to clarify]
